you know it's hard to figure out how to
teach someone to be grateful how to
teach someone to have self-control and
in lots of ways I think it may look very
different than then teaching in the way
that we generally think about teaching I
mean one way I think a Kip that it plays
out is actually in the discipline
process it's so when kids get in trouble
they now use the character language to
try to get kids to think about why they
made the mistakes they made how they
could do things differently and it's
almost I mean it reminded me of a lot of
the metacognitive techniques of
cognitive behavioral therapy it's really
getting kids to slow down and think
about what they're doing think about why
they're making the mistakes they're
making and change themselves so that
that is really different than then
traditional teaching in the classroom
but my sense actually at Kipp in other
places is that that is going to be the
tool that's most effective to help get
these take us inside the classroom how
do you see it unfold right so I think
that's I mean I'm seeing it I think I
think it's so you want to sort of make
it viral you sort of want to make it
part of the culture so it becomes part
of the I mean we've tried to put it into
the some of the language into our
faculty evaluation systems because I
think that the faculty I'm actually not
modeling these character strengths then
you can't expect the kids to do that
in a classroom I saw just recently an
eighth grade teacher that was asking she
had asked the kids halfway through the
year to think about what which one of
these strengths had played out in their
writing workshopping so they were doing
sort of revisions of writing and these
kids were writing these sort of meta
narratives about that piece of work that
they were finishing up and saying okay I
you know felt that because I was really
curious about this subject that
therefore the writing turned out better
and then they actually cared to revisit
they sort of had to revisit this process
at the end of the year picking out a
strength or two that was good for them
that was really supportive of their work
on a strength or two that they had
problems with and I think again it's
sort of suffused in the school I think
is the way that it shouldn't you know a
lot of educational ideas it's like
you've got to develop a new course a new
program by some new technology I mean I
think something like this it's like just
how do we change our language how do we
change our focus a bit there's a lot of
things going on in schools how can you
focus on on these non-cognitive
strengths in a way that's sort of
cultural and pervasive and sort of viral
and teachers run with this stuff I mean
it's sort of amazing I mean teachers
have been using this on the playground
during recess and talking to kids and
about how they need to be more
self-controlled and using that language
even with very very young very very
young kids and I think the earlier you
do this the research shows the better it
is
um so wrestle two things one is we
absolutely integrate this into academic
studies so that when you're in 9th grade
English you start off by learning about
Carol Dweck's work on mindset and the
idea of being that is intelligence fixed
or is intelligence something that if you
practice you get better and there is a
lot of research that growth mindset
makes a tremendous difference in terms
of learning outcomes and actually simply
knowing that language and simply
understanding the research makes a
difference in learning outcomes so as
ninth graders they learn about these
concepts and then they both look at it
through the characters they're reading
about so they're reading The Odyssey and
did Odysseus have a growth mindset or a
fixed mindset and then they're thinking
about their own actual work throughout
the year